# RestServiceGenerator

This is a java project build with maven to generate basic CRUD operation REST APIs 
using [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) and backed with [MongoDB](https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-mongodb)

## GeneratedStructure:

1. Generated Project contains basic JWT auth mechanism to protect unauthenticated access.
2. User, UserRole, UserSecurity, BaseEntity and BaseTransactionalEntity are generated by tool.
3. Auth Controller and it's depending classes are generated by tool and these are open APIs which does not require authentication, except change password.
4. Swagger is by default configured and the generated application will run on 8080 port. 
5. The packages are generated in four category:

        1. application - It has sub-packages to store application constant, exception and their handler,
	                 service and service impl and utility package.
	
        2. configuration - Configuration containing aop, security and swagger.
	
        3. controller - REST API controller 
	
        4. domain - Entities and their corresponding repository in different domain directory.
          
6. The generated code has below methods for Controller

        1. For every json present in entity, corresponding controller, service, serviceImpl, repository and 
            domain class are generated.
        
        2. The controller has by default, getAll(), getByIds(), getAllByPageAble()- with sort 
           , save, update list and deleting based on Ids.
           
        3. If json has list attributes, then for all 1st level list items, create, update and delete
           of sub-resources are generated.   
        
                      	
## NOTES:
1. Do not add `_id`, `createdByUser`, `updatedByUser`, `isActive`, `createdDateTime`, `updatedDateTime` and `additionalProperties` variables as these are defined in BaseEntity and BaseTransactionalEntity.
2. Follow the naming convention while defining json file and keys.
3. Please change the connection parameter defined in `resources/application.yml`.
4. **Do not use space in Application name as it will decide name of SpringBootClass**.
5. Modify the property `GENERATE_SUB_RESOURCE` in order to generate sub-resource for each domain.
6. Modify the property `ENABLE_HARD_DELETE` in order to delete records permanently.
7. While defining key of a nested json array, append with either `s` or `List`. e.g - `samples or sampleList`. 

## How to Use :

1. Download the [RestServiceGenerator.zip](https://github.com/aashish-aadarsh/rest-service-generator/raw/master/RestServiceGenerator.zip) and extract to some directory.

2. Go to extracted directory, you will find `RestServiceGenerator.jar` and `properties` 
directory.

3. Go to `properties` directory :   
       i. Modify `generator.properties` with desired property value.  
       ii. Create the `json` file for which domain has to be generated in the entity directory. One sample json is provided for reference, you may delete that file.

4. Open command prompt and change directory where jar file is present and execute below command.     
         `java -jar RestServiceGenerator.jar`
         
    Make sure jar and properties directory are present in same directory.
 5. Wait till application finishes its execution.
 6. Import the skeleton in Eclipse or IntelliJ studio.
 
      Enjoy coding. :)
        
## Known Issues       
    1. While sending JSON for POST operation, the `_id` field of nested entities 
       should be sent from client ( UUID.randomUUID() )  in json otherwise, 
        mongo will not be able to create an ObjectId for nested entities.
      
    2. Usage of Setter and Getter annotation is not possible with private access modifier    

## Issues
Feel free to report any issues, change request [Here](https://github.com/aashish-aadarsh/RestServiceGenerator/issues)

#

##### Credits:
[Aashish Aadarsh](https://github.com/aashish-aadarsh) 

###### LibraryUsed
[ApacheVelocity](https://velocity.apache.org/)

[jsonschema2pojo](http://www.jsonschema2pojo.org/)
